
                               CHAPTER I.
                           A WAIF OF THE SEA.


The fog had lifted, and a few stars were to be seen twinkling feebly;
but the wind was very light, and what there was of it was dead ahead.
There was a heavy swell rolling in from the eastward, but no sea
running. The Gloucester fishing schooner _Sea Robin_ was homeward bound
from the Newfoundland Banks, and as she slowly climbed each glassy
incline of black water, and then slid down into the windless hollow
beyond, she seemed to be making no progress whatever on her course.

Although the _Sea Robin_ had been out for more than four months, and had
seen vessel after vessel of the fleet leave the Banks before she did and
sail for home with full fares, not half the salt in her pens was used
up, and she was returning with the smallest catch of the season. In
spite of the fact that provisions were running low on board the
schooner, her captain, Almon McCloud, would not have given up and left
the Banks yet, had not a recent gale swept away his dories, and caused
the loss of his new four-hundred-fathom cable.

Under these circumstances the crew of the schooner were very
low-spirited, and there was none of the larking and fun among them that
is usually to be noticed in a homeward-bound Banker. The men wondered as
to the “Jonah” who had caused all their ill-luck. Finally they whispered
among themselves that it must be the skipper. They now remembered that
he had been unfortunate in more than one undertaking during the past
year or two, and all were agreed that it would be wise not to sail with
him again. This decision had been unanimously reached a few days before
the one on which this story opens; and when, shortly before daybreak,
there came a loud pounding on the cabin hatch, and a request that the
captain should come on deck, one of the watch below turned restlessly in
his bunk, and growled out,

“I expect we are in for another bit of the skipper’s tough luck.”

Reaching the deck, Captain McCloud found the two men on watch gazing
earnestly at a dull red glow that lighted the distant horizon behind
them.

“Looks like there was suthin afire back there, skipper,” said the man at
the wheel.

The captain waited until the schooner rose on top of a swell, and then,
after a long look at the light, gave the order to put her about and run
for it.

There was some grumbling among the crew at this, for they were tired and
sick of the trip. They wanted to get home and have it over with, and
this running back over the course they had just come seemed to promise a
long and vexatious delay. However, lucky or unlucky, their skipper had
proved himself to be the captain of his vessel in every sense of the
word more times than one, and they dared not question his action loudly
enough for him to hear them.

For nearly an hour longer the light glowed steadily, then it expanded
into a sudden wonderful brightness, and the next instant had disappeared
entirely.

Three hours later, just as the sun was rising in all its sea-born glory,
the _Sea Robin_ sailed slowly through a mass of charred timbers and
other floating remains of what evidently had been a large vessel. There
were no boats to be seen, nor was anything discovered by which her name
or character could be identified. For some time the schooner cruised
back and forth through the wreckage in a fruitless search for survivors
of the catastrophe. As they were about to give it up, and Captain
McCloud had begun to issue the order to head her away again on her
course towards home, he all at once held up his hand to command silence,
and listened.

It was certainly the cry of an infant that came clear and loud across
the water. The crew looked at each other in amazement, not unmixed with
fear. There was no boat to be seen, no sign of life; and yet there it
came again, louder and more distinct than before; the vigorous cry of a
healthy baby who has just waked up and is hungry. The wind had died out
entirely, the water was oily in its unruffled smoothness, and only the
long swell remained.

Once more the cry was heard, and now it seemed so close at hand that
several of the men trembled and turned pale. There was still nothing to
be seen, save on the crest of the swell above them an apparently empty
cask maintaining an upright position in the water, and showing a third
of its length above it.

“That’s the life-boat!” shouted Captain McCloud. “There’s where the
music comes from, men. Oh for the use of a dory for just five minutes!”

Having no boat, they could only watch the cask as it came slowly nearer
and nearer, and several of the men prepared to jump overboard and swim
for it in case it should drift past them. At last, when it was about
thirty feet away, the skipper, making a skilful cast, settled the bight
of a light line over the strange craft. Then he carefully drew it
towards the schooner, over the low rail of which a couple of the crew
were hanging, waiting with out-stretched arms to grasp it.

A minute later the cask stood on the schooner’s deck, and Captain
McCloud was lifting tenderly from it a sturdy, well-grown baby boy,
apparently about two years old. The little fellow smiled in the
weather-beaten face, and stretched out his arms eagerly as the rough
fisherman bent down towards him. At the same instant there came a
fluttering of sails overhead, with a rattling of blocks, and one of the
crew sang out as he sprang to the wheel, “Here’s a breeze! and it’s fair
for home!”

“The baby’s brought it!” shouted another. “Hurrah for the baby!”

The shout was eagerly taken up by the crew; three hearty cheers were
given for the baby, and three more for the breeze he had brought with
him. Then, springing to sheets and halyards with more enthusiasm than
they had shown before on the whole cruise, the active fellows quickly
had the _Sea Robin_ under a cloud of light canvas, and humming merrily
along towards Gloucester.

They now found time to look at their baby, who, held in the skipper’s
arms while he gave the necessary orders for working the schooner,
contentedly sucked his thumb and gazed calmly about with the air of
being perfectly at home. He was a beautiful child, with great blue eyes
and yellow hair that curled in tiny ringlets all over his head. He was
plainly dressed; but all that he wore was made of the finest material.
Altogether he was so dainty a little specimen of humanity that he seemed
like a pink and white rose-bud amid the rough men who surrounded him. He
gazed at them for a minute or two with a smile, as though he would say
that he was most happy to make their acquaintance, and was not in the
least embarrassed by their stares. Then he turned to the skipper, and
began to cry in exactly the tone with which he had announced his
presence in the floating cask.

“Hello!” exclaimed the skipper, who, though married, had no children of
his own, and had never held a baby before in his life, “what’s up now?
Here, ‘doctor,’ you’ve had some experience in this line, I believe; cast
your weather eye over this way and tell us the meaning of the squall.”

The cook, or “doctor,” as he is almost always called on board the
fishing schooners, and, in fact, on most vessels, was a short, thick-set
Portuguese, almost as dark as an Indian, but the very picture of
good-nature. He now stepped up behind the skipper so as to have a good
view of the baby, whose face, which rested on the skipper’s shoulder,
was turned away from the crew, who stood looking at him in a helplessly
bewildered way.

At the “doctor’s” sudden appearance the baby stopped crying, began again
to suck his thumb, and, with great, wide-open eyes, stared solemnly at
the grinning figure to whom it was thus introduced.

“Him hongry, skip,” announced the “doctor.” “Me fix him, pret quicka,
bimeby, right off. Got one lit tin cow lef. You fetcha him down.”

The “doctor,” who was named Mateo, declared afterwards that the moment
he looked into the baby’s face the little one had winked at him, as much
as to say, “You know what I want, old chap, now go ahead and get it.”

By his “lit tin cow” he meant a can of condensed milk, and, as the only
man on board who knew how to feed a baby, he had suddenly become the
most important person among all the crew. Obeying his order, the
skipper, with the new arrival in his arms, followed him down into the
fore hold. The rest of the crew also attempted to crowd down into the
narrow space to witness the novel sight of a baby at breakfast, but old
Mateo quickly ordered them on deck, saying that the little stranger was
big enough to occupy all the room there was to spare.

Then he bustled around in a hurry. He got out and opened the one
remaining can of milk, and mixed a small portion of its contents with
some warm water in a cup. The baby watched his every movement in
silence, but with such a wise look that both the men felt he knew
exactly what was going on. Now came the anxious moment--would he take
the milk? Had he learned how to drink? The anxiety was quickly ended. He
had learned to drink, and quickly emptied the proffered cup of every
drop of its contents with an eagerness that showed how hungry he was. A
ship biscuit, broken into small bits and soaked until soft in another
cup of the warm milk, proved equally acceptable. When the members of the
crew heard that the baby not only took kindly to the tin cow’s milk, but
had eaten hard-tack, they were highly delighted. They declared that he
was a natural born sailor, and would make a fisherman yet.

After his breakfast the baby was laid in the skipper’s own bunk in the
cabin, where, warmly covered, and rocked by the motion of the schooner,
he quickly fell asleep.

On deck the men conversed in low tones for fear of disturbing him. Their
sole topic was the child’s miraculous preservation and rescue, first
from the burning vessel and then from the sea. The cask in which he had
floated to them was carefully examined and pronounced to be of foreign
make. It had evidently been prepared hastily to serve the novel purpose
of a life-boat, but the preparation had been made with skill. In the
bottom was a quantity of scrap-iron, that had served as ballast and
caused it to float on end instead of on its side. On top of this were,
tightly wedged, two large empty tin cans, square, and having screw tops;
while above these was a pillow, in which the baby, wrapped in a thick
woollen shawl, had been laid. There was nothing else. Here was the baby,
and here the cask in which he had been saved; there, far behind them,
was the charred wreckage, and on the sky the night before had shone the
red glow from the burning vessel. Where she was from, and where bound,
whether or not others besides this helpless babe had been spared her
awful fate, what was her name and what her nationality, were among the
countless mysteries of the ocean that might never be cleared up.

There was little satisfaction to be gained by the discussion of these
things; but the baby was a reality, and a novelty such as none of them
had ever before seen on board a fishing schooner. Of him they talked
incessantly during the three days’ homeward run. What they should call
him perplexed them sadly for a time. The names suggested and rejected
would have added several pages to a city directory. Finally this most
important question was decided by the skipper, who said, “He brought a
fair breeze with him that’s held by us ever since, and is giving us one
of the quickest runs home ever made from the Banks. He’s as bright and
cheery and refreshing as a breeze himself, and I propose that we call
him ‘Breeze.’ It’s a name that might belong to almost any nationality,
and yet give offence to none. As to a second name, for want of a better,
and if he don’t discover the one he’s rightly entitled to, why, I’ll
give him mine. What’s more, I’ll adopt him if his own folks don’t turn
up; that is, if my old woman is agreeable, and I ain’t much afraid but
what she will be.”

So the little waif of the sea became, and was known from that day forth
as, Breeze McCloud--a name that was destined to become connected with as
many exciting adventures and hair-breadth escapes as any ever signed to
the shipping papers of a Gloucester fishing schooner.

The breeze that hurried the _Sea Robin_ along was none too fair nor too
strong; for the supply of milk furnished by the “doctor’s” tin cow was
completely exhausted before they reached home. If they had not got in
just as they did, the baby would have suffered from hunger, and the
whole crew would have suffered with him. As it was, they passed
Thatcher’s Island while he was drinking the last of the milk. Before he
was again hungry, with everything set and drawing, and decorated with
every flag and bit of bunting that could be found on board, the saucy
_Sea Robin_ had rounded Eastern Point and was sailing merrily up
Gloucester harbor.

A crowd of people had assembled on the wharf to witness her arrival, and
learn the cause of her decorations. As she neared it one of them called
out,

“What is it, skipper? You’ve got your flags up as if you thought you was
High-line[A] of the fleet; but the old _Robin_ don’t look to be very
deep. What have you got?”

-----

Footnote A:

  High-line. The man who catches the most fish on a trip, or the vessel
  that brings in the heaviest fare of the season.

-----

“We do claim to be High-line,” shouted back the skipper. “And here’s
what we’ve got to prove it.” With this he held the baby high above his
head so that all might see it, and added, “If any Grand Banker has
brought in a better fare than that this season, I want to see it; that’s
all.”

So Breeze McCloud entered Gloucester harbor, and never had any stranger
been received with greater enthusiasm. The news of his arrival spread
like wildfire, and it seemed as though half the population of the city
had crowded down to the wharf to see him before Captain McCloud could
get ready to leave the schooner. Then, with the baby in his arms, he
stepped into the long seine-boat that, pulled by half a dozen lusty
fellows, was waiting to take him across the harbor to the foot of the
hill upon which his modest cottage was perched.

After many days of anxiety--for the _Sea Robin_ was long overdue--the
captain’s wife, who had watched his schooner sail up the harbor with
flags flying, now awaited him in a fever of impatience. She had waited
at home because she could not bear to meet him before strangers, so she
had heard nothing of what he was bringing her. When at last she saw him
coming up the hill, accompanied by an ever-increasing throng of men,
women, and children, she was greatly perplexed to know what to make of
the sight, and hurried down to the little front gate, where she waited
for an explanation.

“Why! whose child can the man have picked up?” she said to herself, as
her husband drew near enough for her to see what it was he held in his
arms.

“The old _Robin’s_ High-line this season, Dolly,” cried Captain McCloud
as he reached the gate, “and I’ve brought you my share of the catch.”

“You don’t mean that baby, Almon!” exclaimed the bewildered woman.

“Yes, I do mean this very blessed baby! He’s a waif of the sea, without
father, mother, or home, that anybody knows of; and if you say the word,
we’ll give him all three.” With this he held the baby towards her.

She hesitated a moment, but the baby did not. With a happy little crow
he at once stretched out his arms to her, and said, “Mamma!”

It was enough. All the mother-love within her responded to this cry, and
the next moment the little one was hugged tightly to her bosom.

Turning to those who had accompanied him, Captain McCloud said, “That
settles it, neighbors! I hadn’t much doubt of it before; now I know I am
acting rightly; and here, before you all, I solemnly adopt this baby
boy, Breeze McCloud, as my son, and promise, with God’s help, to be a
father to him in deed as well as in name.”

On board the _Sea Robin_ none of the rough nurses, not even the
baby-wise Mateo, had dared undress the little one so strangely given
into their charge, for fear they would not be able to dress him again.
Thus, when he was delivered to Mrs. McCloud, it was evident that, next
to food, his greatest needs were a bath and some clean clothes. These
last his adopted mother borrowed from a neighbor who had children of all
ages and sizes.

When the baby was undressed it was discovered that a slender gold chain
was clasped about his neck. Attached to it was a golden ball covered
with a tracery of unique and elaborate engraving. It was apparently
hollow; but nobody was able to open it, nor could they discover any
joint on its surface, so skilful was the workmanship that had created
it. Finally, declaring that it was merely an ornament and not meant to
be opened, Mrs. McCloud put it carefully away in a sandal-wood box,
among her own little hoard of treasures.

In that box the golden ball lay for years, almost unnoticed, but ever
guarding jealously the secret that some day should exert such a
wonderful influence over the fortunes of the baby from whose neck it had
been taken.




                              CHAPTER II.
                         ON BOARD THE “CURLEW.”


Fifteen years seems a long time, and yet when they are happy years how
quickly they pass! They had been happy to Breeze McCloud; happy and busy
years. No boy in Gloucester had a pleasanter home or more loving parents
than he, though he was but an adopted son. He rarely thought of this,
though, for Captain McCloud had, from the very first, been a true
father, and the captain’s wife a loving mother to him. No other children
had come to them since they had taken him into their hearts and home,
and he was their pride and delight. He had grown to be a tall, handsome
fellow, interested in his studies, and a bright scholar, but always
impatient for the time to come when he should go out into the world and
win from it his own livelihood.

Whenever Captain McCloud was at home the boy was his constant companion,
and from him Breeze eagerly learned the rudiments of a sailor’s art. He
delighted in being called his father’s “dorymate,” and was very proud of
being able to swim, and to row and sail his own dory, before he was
twelve years old.

Being so much in his father’s company, and listening to the
conversations between him and other men, gave Breeze many ideas beyond
the comprehension of most boys of his age. He sometimes wore a grave and
thoughtful air, and often said wise things that sounded oddly enough in
one so young.

The boy’s curly head was a familiar sight on board most of the fishing
schooners that were constantly coming into or going out of the port.
Here he was perfectly happy while listening to some tale of adventure on
the Banks or more distant fishing grounds, perhaps told by its hero on
the breezy deck or in the snug cabin of the very craft on which it had
all happened.

At last the time had come for him to set forth in quest of similar
adventures, and to do his share towards maintaining the home that had
been such a safe and pleasant one to him. There was sorrow in it now,
and there might soon be want. The _Sea Robin_ had been gone six months,
and no word had been received from her since the day she sailed out
beyond Eastern Point, and vanished in the red glory of the rising sun.

Only in the hearts of his wife and adopted son did the faintest hope
remain that the _Robin’s_ captain was still alive. To all others he was
as dead, and a new breadwinner was needed in his place.

“I must go now, mother,” said Breeze. “I’m large and strong for my age,
and if they’ll take me I am sure I can do a man’s work and earn a man’s
wages.”

“Oh, Breeze, my dear boy! my comfort! Is there not something else you
can do? A clerkship would pay just as well, and there would be none of
the horrible danger.”

“Don’t, mother! don’t urge it! It makes me heart-sick to think of a
desk, or of being shut up all day in a store. I should never be good for
anything, you know I wouldn’t, mother dear, trying to do work that I had
no heart in.”

“But, Breeze--”

“But, mother! Please don’t think any more about a clerkship. Give me
your consent and your blessing, and let me follow father’s calling and
gain a living from the sea, as he has done. I came to you from the sea,
you know,” he continued, with a winning smile, and patting her thin
cheeks. “It was kind to me then, and it always will be, I am sure.”

After many talks of this kind Breeze carried his point. Then, one
evening in March, there was no prouder boy in town than he, when he was
able to announce to his mother that he had shipped for a mackerelling
trip to the southward, on the schooner _Curlew_.

The vessel was already taking in her ice and stores, and would haul out
into the stream the next morning, ready to start. Breeze was to go over
to town the first thing after breakfast, and buy the oil-skin suit,
rubber boots, and woollen cap that, besides the canvas bag of heavy
clothing he would take from home, would form his outfit. These he would
send aboard the schooner. Then he would come home again and say good-by
if there was time--but perhaps there would not be, and so they had
better make the most of this evening.

They did make the most of it, and until after ten o’clock, Breeze and
his mother sat hand in hand, and talked, she sadly and tearfully, he
bravely and hopefully.

The next morning, just before he left, his mother called him into her
room, saying, “I have one more thing to give you, Breeze. It is
something that should be the most precious thing in the world to you,
and I want you to wear it always.” With this she took from the
sandalwood box, that had kept it safely all these years, the slender
chain and golden ball that had hung around his baby neck when she first
held him in her arms.

Breeze was inclined to laugh at the idea of wearing a gold chain and a
locket around his neck; but his mother was so in earnest in her desire
that he should, that he promised to do as she wished.

[Illustration: “I CAME TO YOU FROM THE SEA,” HE SAID, PATTING HER THIN
CHEEKS.]

“It was, doubtless, your own mother first placed it there, and I have a
strong feeling that it will, somehow or other, have much to do with your
future safety and happiness,” she said. “See, I have made a little
pocket in the breast of each of your flannel shirts to hold it,” she
added, as she clasped the chain about his neck and kissed him.

“Own mother, or not own mother, no boy ever had a better, or sweeter, or
dearer, or more loving mother than you have been to me,” cried Breeze,
throwing his arms about her neck, “and I would not exchange you for any
other in the world, not even if she was a queen.”

Now that the time to go had really come, the boy found it a very hard
thing to part from his home. After he had kissed his mother good-by, and
started down the hill, with his canvas bag on his shoulder, he dared not
look back, though he knew she was standing in front of the little
cottage watching him.

He had barely time in town to make his few purchases before the _Curlew_
should sail; for wind and tide were both favorable, and her skipper was
impatient to take advantage of them and get started. His hurry was owing
to the fact that several other schooners were getting ready for trips to
the same waters. He was anxious to be the first on the ground, and, if
possible, carry the first fresh mackerel of the season into New York.

Although everybody has seen and eaten mackerel either fresh or salted,
and though they are caught in immense numbers off the Atlantic coast of
the United States every year, there is but little really known about
them. Where they come from and where they go to are still unsolved
mysteries. Every spring, between the middle of March and the middle of
April, they appear in great shoals in the waters just north of Cape
Hatteras. At this time they are very thin, and hardly fit for food; but
on the coast feeding-grounds they rapidly improve, until in the early
summer, when they have worked their way northward to New England waters,
they are in prime condition. They generally run as far north as the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, from which, in the fall, they suddenly disappear, to be
seen no more until the following spring.

All through the summer, but especially at the very first of the season,
those that are caught near a port are packed in ice and carried in to
the market fresh. The greater part of the year’s catch is, however,
salted in barrels on board the schooners, and afterwards repacked on
shore, in kits or boxes, marked according to the size and quality of the
fish they contain, Nos. 1, 2, 3, or 4, and sent all over the world.

The cruise on which Breeze McCloud was about to start was to be made in
search of the very first mackerel of the season, and the _Curlew’s_
destination was therefore the waters off the Delaware coast, or between
there and Cape Hatteras.

By ten o’clock everything was in readiness for the start. The skipper
had come on board, and all hands were hard at work, making sail or
breaking out and getting up the heavy anchor. Then it was “up jib and
away.” As the lively craft slipped swiftly down the harbor, Breeze found
time for one long last look at his home. At the cottage door he could
just make out a waving handkerchief, that told him he was being watched
and remembered.

Once outside, all hands were kept busy for a couple of hours, setting
light sails, coiling lines, stowing odds and ends, and making everything
snug. The course they were heading would carry them just clear of Cape
Cod; and before a spanking breeze, under a press of canvas, the _Curlew_
tore along as though sailing an ocean race that she was bound to win.
Almost any fishing vessel but a mackereller going out at this stormy
season would have left both top-masts and her jib-boom at home, being
content with the safest of working sails. To the early mackerel catcher,
however, every minute gained may mean many extra dollars in pocket; so
his craft sails in racing trim, and carries her canvas to the extreme of
recklessness.

Like all fishing schooners, the _Curlew_ had a forecastle, in which
several of the crew slept, and in which were also the cook-stove and
mess-table. Back of it was the pantry and store-room, in which were ten
fresh-water tanks. Still farther aft was the hold, divided into pens by
partitions of rough boards. These were now filled with cakes of ice, but
later would be used for fish. Abaft the hold was the cabin, in which the
skipper and five of the crew found sleeping accommodations. It was
neatly finished in ash, and running along three sides of it was a broad
transom that served as a seat or lounging-place. The only furniture was
a small coal-stove, securely fastened in the middle of the floor. On the
walls hung a clock, a barometer, and a thermometer. A few charts were
stowed overhead in a rack, and, flung around in the bunks or on the
transom, were a number of paper-covered novels.

The business of fishing is conducted upon the system of shares. That is,
half the value of the catch, after outfitting expenses have been
deducted, goes to the owners of the vessel, and half to the crew.
Although the skipper and cook are not required to take part in the
actual business of fishing, each of them receives a full share. The
skipper gets, in addition, four per cent. of the value of the catch, and
the cook has regular wages.

The living on board a fishing schooner is generally superior to that on
almost any other craft. It consists of fresh meat, whenever it can be
obtained, fresh fish, vegetables, dried fruit, soft bread, cakes and
pies, eggs, condensed milk, and always tea and coffee, hot, strong, and
in abundance.

The _Curlew_ was manned by a picked crew of twelve men, including the
skipper and cook. They were young, strong, and active, and, except
Breeze, all were skilful fishermen. He had been considered very
fortunate in obtaining a berth at a time of year when there are so many
good men anxious to ship. That he had done so was largely owing to the
friendship existing between the skipper, Captain Ezra Coffin, and his
adopted father.

When he had consented to ship the boy for this trip, the skipper said,

“It’s a hard life, Breeze, and one full of chances. Every man aboard may
have a hundred dollars to his credit before the week is out, and then
again we may cruise for a month and not make enough to pay for our ice.
You are only a boy, but you will have to do a man’s work, and hard work
at that. There are perils of all kinds waiting on every minute of the
night and day, and they’ll come when you least expect them. I’d rather a
boy of mine would saw wood for a living on land than to try and make it
by fishing. Besides all this, as you are a green hand, I can only offer
you half a share for this trip. Still, if you are bound to come, I’m
glad to have you, both for your own sake and for that of my old
dorymate, Almon McCloud. So bring along your dunnage, lad, and may
good-luck come with you!”

Breeze had answered, “I know it won’t be all plain sailing, sir, and
that I’ve got a lot to learn before I can be called an A 1 hand. Still,
hard and dangerous as you say the business is, I’d rather try and make a
living at it than at anything else I know of, and I am much obliged to
you for giving me a chance.”

Soon after leaving port, the skipper called all hands aft to draw for
bunks and to “thumb the hat.” The bunks had numbers chalked on them, and
now the skipper held in his hand as many small sticks as there were men
in the crew. Each stick had notches cut in it corresponding to the
numbers of the bunks, and one by one the crew stepped up and drew them
from the skipper’s hand. Thus the sleeping quarters were distributed
with perfect fairness, and there was no chance for grumbling. Breeze was
lucky enough to draw one of the wide bunks in the cabin, and at once
hastened to stow his possessions in it.

When all the berths had been thus distributed, the crew again gathered
aft, and each man placed a thumb on the rim of an old straw hat that had
been laid on top of the cabin. The skipper turned his back to them, one
of the men named a number, and, without looking to see whose it was, the
skipper touched one of the thumbs. Then he counted around until the
number mentioned was reached. The man at whose thumb he stopped was to
stand first watch and trick at the wheel, the next man on his right the
second, and so on. There would be two men on watch in bad weather, but
one is generally considered sufficient when it is fine.

With the parting injunction to “mind, now, and remember who you are to
call,” the skipper went below. As eight bells, or twelve o’clock, was
struck, the man who had first watch took the wheel, gave a glance at the
compass, another at the sails, and the regular routine of duty was
begun.

Now dinner was announced, and after the skipper was seated, the half of
the crew that reached the mess-table and secured seats were entitled to
eat at “first table” during the trip. The others had to be content to
eat at “second table.” Breeze was not posted as to this, and
consequently was among those who got left when the rush took place.
Afterwards, this seemingly trifling circumstance proved to be of the
most vital importance to him, as we shall see.

The cruise thus fairly begun was continued without incident until the
_Curlew_ reached the fishing grounds off the Virginia capes. Then, under
easy sail, she stood off and on, with a man constantly at the mast-head,
scanning the surface of the water in the hope of seeing mackerel. The
great seine-boat was got overboard, and with the seine in it, was towed
behind the schooner, ready for instant use.

At length, after four tedious days of this work, the impatient crew were
brought tumbling on deck in a hurry one fine morning by the welcome cry
of “There they school; half a mile away, off the weather bow!”




                              CHAPTER III.
                       THE HAULING OF THE SEINE.


In less than five minutes after the first cry announcing the appearance
of the eagerly expected fish, the great thirty-foot, double-ended
seine-boat, rowed by eight men, had left the schooner and started in the
direction of the school. In its stern, with his hand on the long
steering oar, stood the seine-master, directing the course of the boat
and keeping a sharp lookout ahead. Pulling after them as fast as he
could was Breeze McCloud, in the single dory that the _Curlew_ carried.
The schooner, left in charge of the skipper and cook, was thrown up into
the wind, and was held as nearly stationary as possible until it could
be seen where she would be wanted.

“Come, stretch yourselves, lads! stretch yourselves! Let’s see who’ll
break the first oar! Those other fellows are just humping themselves.
It’s Yankee against Yankee this time, and you’ve got a tough lot to
beat,” shouted the seine-master.

He would, of course, have been very sorry to have an oar broken, but he
had such confidence that the men could do no more than bend the tough
ash blades, no matter how hard they tugged, that he was perfectly
willing they should try. By the “other fellows” he meant the crew of
another fishing schooner, which daylight of that morning had disclosed
not far from them, and which had evidently discovered mackerel about the
same time they had. They, too, were out in their seine-boat, and
doubtless looked forward with as great confidence as did the men from
the _Curlew_ to taking the first fare of the season into New York.

“Easy, lads, easy now!” ordered the seine-master, in a tone of
suppressed excitement; “here’s our school.” Now he tossed overboard a
small keg, or buoy, to which was attached one end of the upper, or cork
line of the great net. Near this Breeze was to wait in his dory. Then,
bending to their oars, the boat’s crew began to pull, with lusty
strokes, in a great circle around the school of fish that was rippling
the water close beside them. Swimming in a dense body close to the
surface, often throwing themselves clear of the water, with their steely
blue sides flashing in the morning light, the mackerel were darting
madly hither and thither. At one instant the whole school, moved by some
mysterious impulse, would make a simultaneous dash in one direction, and
the next it would as suddenly rush back again. In the cool dim depths
beneath them, dog-fish, sharks, and other hungry sea pirates were
breakfasting off the newly arrived strangers, and devouring them by the
score. In the air above them circled and swooped great fishing hawks,
anxious to make a meal off of fresh mackerel. Now to these enemies was
added man, the most cruel and greatly to be dreaded of all. No wonder
the poor fish were frightened and undecided as to the direction of their
flight from so many imminent dangers.

Meantime the great net, a quarter of a mile long, had been skilfully
drawn completely around them. Breeze, in his dory, obeying previously
given instructions, carried the buoy that had first been thrown
overboard to the seine-boat, in which the other end of the cork-line was
still held and made fast. The circle was now perfect, and the fish were
surrounded by a wall of fine but stout twine. Their only chance of
escape lay at the bottom of the net, and in another minute this opening
would also be closed against them.

While the upper edge of the seine was floated by means of numerous large
corks attached to the rope that ran along its entire length, its lower
edge was sunk and held straight down by an equal number of leaden rings.
Through these ran a second stout line, known as the “purse rope,” an end
of which remained in the boat. By pulling on this all the leaden rings
could be drawn close together, and as the net was now in the form of a
circle, its lower edge would form a purse in which there would be no
opening for escape.

Hauling on this rope and “pursing” the seine is the hardest part of the
entire job, and takes the united efforts of the seine-boat’s crew. It is
also a most exciting operation, for if it is successfully accomplished
the fish are caught and an ample reward for all the previous toil is
almost certain. If, on the other hand, the fish take alarm at the last
moment and dart downward through the still open bottom of the net, all
the hard work goes for nothing and must be done over again, perhaps many
times before a successful haul is made.

Such was the case in this instance. Success was almost within reach of
the _Curlew’s_ crew, when suddenly the entire school of fish, upon which
they were building such high hopes, dropped out of sight like so many
leaden plummets, and were gone. They had evidently decided that there
were more chances for life among the sharks and dog-fish than within the
power of their human enemies, and had wisely seized their last chance of
escape from them.

It was a bitter disappointment, and it was made the keener by the sight
of certain movements on board the rival schooner that indicated a
successful pursing of their seine and a heavy catch of fish. Slowly, and
with much grumbling over their hard luck, the _Curlew’s_ men gathered in
their net and empty seine. They piled it up carefully, rings forward and
corks aft, in the after-part of their boat, ready for the next time.
Then they listlessly pulled towards their schooner, which was lying near
by, and on board which breakfast awaited them.

The _Curlew_ sailed close to the other schooner in order to learn her
luck, and witness the lively scene about her. The stranger’s seine had
enclosed an enormous school of fish, which was estimated at nearly, if
not quite, five hundred barrels. One end of it had been got on board the
schooner, and the dipping out of the fish was about to begin. They were
greatly frightened, and rushed from side to side with such violence that
many of them were crushed to death. All at once they sank, and their
weight was so great as to draw one gunwale of the heavy seine-boat under
the water, although eight men were perched on the opposite side to
counterbalance it.

When a crew find a greater quantity of fish on their hands than they can
take care of, as was the case now, it is customary, if there is another
vessel within hail, to give her the surplus rather than to throw it
away. Having often done this himself, Captain Coffin did not hesitate,
as the two schooners drew close together, to hail the other skipper and
ask if he had any fish to give away.

“No, I haven’t,” was the surly answer. “If you want fish go and catch
’em.”

“All right,” answered Captain Coffin, somewhat provoked, but still
good-naturedly; “we’re the lads can just do that, and we’ll beat you
into New York yet.”

“Looks like it now, doesn’t it?” shouted the other, scornfully. “If you
do, though, it won’t be because I helped you. I’d rather lose every fish
I’ve got alongside here than to give you one of them.”

These words were hardly out of his mouth when the captured fish darted
violently towards the bottom of the net, and the seine-boat was nearly
capsized, as has been related. Its crew hurriedly scrambled to the upper
side. Suddenly the boat righted, so quickly that the whole eight men
were flung overboard, and found themselves floundering in the cold
water.

The situation was startling as well as comical, though the explanation
of what had happened was very simple. The frightened fish, in their
downward rush, had torn a great hole in the net, which was an old one,
and through it they had instantly darted to depths of safety. The seine,
being thus relieved of its burden, no longer pulled the boat down, and
it at once yielded to the weight of the men on its upper gunwale.

Under ordinary circumstances this mishap would have excited the sympathy
of those on board the _Curlew_. Now, on account of the uncivil reply of
the rival skipper to their captain, they were inclined to rejoice at
what had happened, and they roared with laughter at the rueful faces of
the dripping men as they scrambled back into their boat.

To Breeze the whole affair presented itself in such a comical aspect
that he laughed louder and longer than any of the others, though in a
perfectly good-humored way, and without a trace of an unkind feeling
towards those who had been so unfortunate. His mirth was, however,
deemed peculiarly irritating by one of the rival crew, a young man with
an ugly face that bore unmistakable traces of dissipation. He shook his
fist at Breeze and called out,

“Never you mind, young feller, I’ll not forget you! And maybe I’ll find
a chance to make you laugh out of the other side of your mouth some
day.”

This speech sobered Breeze at once, though at first he looked around in
a bewildered way, thinking it could not possibly be meant for him. When
he realized that it was he shouted back,

“Seems to me I wouldn’t feel so bad about it if I was you. I wasn’t
laughing at you, anyway. I was laughing to think how surprised those
mackerel must have been when you went diving down after them, trying to
catch ’em in your hands.”

This raised another shout of laughter from the Curlew men, but the young
man towards whom it was directed only shook his fist again at Breeze,
and turned away without a word, going below to find some dry clothes.

Breeze saw that he had unwittingly made for himself an enemy in this
stranger, and for a time the knowledge caused him real distress. He was
a warm-hearted boy, preferring friendships to enmities, and would at any
time sacrifice his own pleasure or comfort to win the former and
overcome the latter. At the same time, he was not sorry that he had
asserted his own independence and answered back as he had. The incident
soon passed from his mind, however, in the rush of more stirring events,
and it was some time before he was again reminded of it.

Captain Coffin was much puzzled to account for the surliness of the
rival skipper until the _Curlew_ passed astern of the other schooner, so
that her name, _Roxy B._, and her hailing port could be read. Then it
flashed across him that this was the Rockhaven craft that was thought to
be so fast, but which he had beaten in a fair race on a run into Boston
the summer before.

[Illustration: “SEEMS TO ME I WOULDN’T FEEL SO BAD ABOUT IT IF I WAS
YOU.”]

To bear ill-will for such a cause certainly showed a small and mean
mind, and Captain Coffin said he was very glad the other had refused to
let him have any fish, for he should hate to be under obligations to
such a man.

The _Curlew_ had not gone more than a mile from the _Roxy B._ when the
fish of which she was in search began to rise to the surface on all
sides of her. The seine-boat was quickly sent out, while Breeze, in his
dory, followed it as before. This time a school was successfully
surrounded, and the net was pursed without a mishap. A flag hoisted on
an oar in the boat was the signal to the schooner that they had made a
large haul and needed her assistance. She was soon brought alongside of
the pursed seine with its burden of glittering fish, and from it a
long-handled scoop-net, worked with a tackle, was dipping them, a
half-barrelful at a time, and transferring them to her deck.

The catch was about one hundred and fifty barrels of mackerel that were
of a prime quality as to size, but so thin that they would have been
unfit to split and salt. The afternoon was drawing to a close before
they were all got on board and the seine was properly stowed in its
boat; but there was no rest for the tired crew yet a while. Sail was
made on the schooner, and she was headed for Sandy Hook, nearly three
hundred miles away. Then all hands, except the cook and the man at the
wheel, turned to and began “gibbing” and packing the fish.

Mackerel are so delicate that they die almost as soon as they touch a
deck, and will quickly spoil if not cared for at once. So there was no
time to lose, and the whole catch must be “gibbed,” or cleaned, and
packed in ice before sleep could be thought of.

In “gibbing” a mackerel the gills are plucked out, and with them come
the entrails. This operation was performed with marvellous rapidity by
the skilled workers of the crew, the refuse matter was tossed into
square wooden boxes known as “gib-tubs,” and the cleaned fish were
thrown into bushel baskets.

Down in the hold the blocks of ice were removed from a pen, and reduced
to small bits by heavy sharp-pointed “slicers.” A layer of this broken
ice was shovelled over the bottom of the empty pen, and above it was
spread a basket of fish. Then came another layer of ice, then more fish,
and so on until the pen was full, when another was emptied and filled in
the same manner. It was long after midnight before the crew of the
_Curlew_ knocked off work, with the last of their fish safely packed
away; but, tired as they were, they were also highly elated by their
success, and by the prospect of being the first mackereller of the
season into New York.

The next day, spent in running up the coast with a brisk westerly
breeze, was one of the happiest that can come to the in-shore fisherman.
Everybody was in the best of humor, from the knowledge that they had,
stowed beneath their hatches, a fair-sized catch of the very earliest
mackerel of the season. They knew these would bring an extra price, and
pay each of them at least twice as much as they would make under more
ordinary circumstances. There was little to do except stand watch and
clean ship; so that most of the day was devoted to the spinning of yarns
in the forecastle, and the singing of songs to a banjo accompaniment in
the cabin. The cook made them a great dish of Joe-floggers (peculiar
pancakes stuffed with plums) for breakfast, and a gorgeous plum-duff for
dinner. Upon the whole, Breeze enjoyed the day so thoroughly that he
wondered how anybody could complain of the hardships of a fisherman’s
life, or think it anything but fascinating.

They passed the double Highland lights, and rounding Sandy Hook, stood
up New York Bay some time during the following night; the next morning,
by daylight, they were snugly moored in the Fulton Market slip, among
scores of other fishing vessels, none of which had on board a single
mackerel. Theirs was the first catch of the season, and before
breakfast-time it had been sold in bulk for three thousand dollars. Of
this, after expenses were deducted, each full share amounted to
ninety-two dollars, while the half share credited to Breeze was
forty-six dollars. This seemed to him a large sum of money to have been
earned in a week, only one day and night of which had been devoted to
real hard work. He at once wrote to his mother telling her the good
news, and as he did so he felt that he had become, if not an important
member of society, at least a very wealthy one.

In the afternoon he took a short walk through the lower part of the
great city, but became so bewildered by the noise, bustle, and crowds of
people that he dared not go very far for fear of getting lost. On one of
the downtown streets that he did visit he was attracted by the sight of
a jeweller’s window. This reminded him of what his mother had said, that
if anybody could open the golden ball that hung from the chain around
his neck it would be a city jeweller.

Entering the store, he stepped up to an elderly gentleman who stood
behind a desk, and unclasping the chain, handed it and the ball to him,
saying, “I don’t know whether this ball will open or not; can you tell
me, sir?”

The jeweller examined the trinket carefully, and seemed particularly
interested in the unique tracery with which it was ornamented. For
several minutes he did not speak; then he asked, abruptly, “Where did
you get this?”

Breeze told him in a few words all that he knew of its history as well
as his own.

“H’m,” said the jeweller. “You wait here a moment, while I show this to
my partner.”

He was gone so long that Breeze began to grow uneasy, and had just about
made up his mind to go in search of him, when he returned. He was
accompanied by a low-browed, swarthy individual, who, when Breeze was
pointed out, stepped up to him and said,

“This trinket, that you have brought in, is quite a novelty in our line,
and I should like to buy it of you. It is a puzzle-charm of East Indian
make. Unless one knows the secret of its construction, it cannot
possibly be opened except by an accident that might not happen in ten
thousand times of trying. I learned my trade in Calcutta, and am
probably the only man in New York City to-day who can open this little
ball. You see that I can do it.”

Here he showed Breeze the ball open, but did not let him see its
contents. Then turning his back for an instant, he again displayed it
closed as before.

“What will you take for it?” he asked.

“It’s not for sale,” answered Breeze, “but I am willing to pay for
learning the trick of how to open it, for I am curious to know what it
contains.”

“That information is not for sale either, nor will I tell you what the
ball contains,” said the jeweller. “Moreover, if you will not sell it to
me, or show me some proof that you are its rightful owner, I shall keep
it until I can place it in the hands of the police, for it is my belief
that you have stolen it.”




                              CHAPTER IV.
                           A SUDDEN DISASTER.


The jeweller’s accusation was so unexpected and startling to Breeze that
he flushed hotly, and for a moment found no words to answer it. Then he
demanded, indignantly,

“How dare you say such a thing? Give me back my property instantly, or I
shall be the one to call in the police!”

“Certainly, my young friend, certainly, when you produce the proof that
it is yours,” replied the man, dropping the trinket into a drawer, of
which he turned the lock.

There was no element of decision lacking in Breeze’s character; he was
quick to act in emergencies, and without another word he stepped to the
door. A small boy was passing.

“Sonny,” said Breeze, “run quick and bring a policeman. If he is here
within five minutes I will give you five cents.”

The boy, keenly alive to a situation that promised so much excitement as
this, started off on a run. Breeze remained standing where he could
survey the whole interior of the store, and could especially keep an eye
on the drawer in which lay his property.

The men inside watched him closely. They had seen him despatch the boy
on some errand, but had not overheard what he said, and did not know
what it was. Now the one who had opened the ball approached him and
said,

“Why don’t you go for your proofs? You had better hurry, as we shall
close up soon, and then we could not look at them until to-morrow.”

“I have sent for them,” answered Breeze, simply.

“Oh,” said the man, somewhat disconcerted. “Well, of course, if they
come in time, and are satisfactory, you shall have your charm back, and
an apology into the bargain.”

“Here comes one of them now,” replied Breeze, as he handed a five-cent
piece to a breathless small boy, who came running up just in front of a
big policeman.

[Illustration: "THAT GENTLEMAN THERE REFUSES TO RETURN A GOLD BALL AND
CHAIN THAT I HANDED HIM FOR EXAMINATION."]

To this officer Breeze said, “That gentleman there,” pointing to the
dark-skinned jeweller, “refuses to return a gold ball and chain that I
handed him for examination. He says he thinks I stole them, and he has
locked them up in a drawer. I think I can bring one of the best-known
men in New York to vouch for my honesty; but it may be some time before
I can find him. Now, I want to know if you will take this trinket, as
the gentleman calls it, and keep it for me until I return?”

“Why not just as well leave it where it is?” interrupted the jeweller,
eagerly. “It will be perfectly safe here, as this officer knows.”

“No,” said Breeze, “that will not do. You must give it to the officer at
once, or else I shall go to the police-station, and enter a complaint
against you for stealing.”

The partners whispered together for a minute. Evidently the bold stand
taken by the lad, and his prompt action, had made a decided impression
upon them.

Before they could reach a decision as to what they should do, the
officer spoke up and said,

“The young man is right. If there is any stolen property in the
question, the proper place for it is in the station-house. So, if you
will just hand over this article, whatever it is, I will take it there.”

There was no appeal from this decision. The locket was reluctantly given
up to the officer, who took both it and Breeze to the station-house near
by. Here the sergeant in charge listened attentively to all that he had
to say, as well as to the story Breeze had to tell.

“Go with him,” he said, finally, to the officer, “down to the schooner,
and see what sort of a character his captain gives him. Then bring him
back here.”

With this he placed the golden ball and chain in a drawer of his own
desk, and again turned to his writing.

Breeze and the officer found Captain Coffin talking to the gentleman to
whom he had sold his cargo of fish that morning. He happened to be not
only a prominent business man, but an active local politician, and was
the very person whom Breeze had in his mind when he had offered to bring
a well-known citizen to establish his character.

Begging their pardon for the interruption, Breeze told his story to
Captain Coffin, and the politician also listened to it.

When the story was finished, the latter, turning to the captain, said,
“Can you vouch for this lad’s honesty, skipper?”

“Certainly I can, as I would for my own,” was the answer. “I have known
him from his babyhood, and, moreover, I have often heard this golden
ball spoken of by his adopted father, though I have never seen it.”

“Then,” said the other, “supposing we step up to the police-station, and
have it returned to him. It is one of the most curious cases I ever
heard of, and I am interested to see that the boy comes out of it all
right.”

Within ten minutes the sergeant had been satisfied that Breeze was the
rightful owner of the locket, had returned it to him, and he had again
clasped its chain about his neck. He was very happy in thus regaining
possession of it, and very thankful to those who had so promptly
assisted him. When Captain Coffin proposed that they should now go to
the jeweller’s shop and get him to again open the ball, Breeze begged
him not to think of such a thing. “I don’t want that man ever to get it
into his possession,” he said, “and I don’t believe he’d open it for us
anyway, now.”

“I guess the boy is about right,” remarked the politician, thoughtfully.
“That fellow has evidently some strong reason for wishing to obtain the
trinket, and if he got hold of it again he might change it for another
that looked just like it, and we never be the wiser.”

This was just what Breeze had thought of when he had refused to leave
the jeweller’s shop and go in search of proofs of his ownership of the
locket, and he was greatly pleased at this evidence that he had acted
wisely.

That night the _Curlew_ sailed out of New York Bay, and was once more
headed to the southward in search of the early mackerel. The following
day was clear and bright, but very cold for that season of the year.
There were only a few clouds to be seen; but the sky was coppery in
color, and the wind, which was still off-shore, was fitful and baffling.
At supper-time, about an hour before sunset, the man at the wheel, who
happened to be one of those who ate at the first table, said,

“Here, McCloud, you belong to second mess; take the wheel while I eat
supper, will you?”

“Certainly I will,” answered Breeze, cheerfully. “What’s the course?”

“South by west, half west, an open sea, a favoring wind, and no odds
asked or given,” was the laughing response, as the man hurried forward.

Captain Coffin was impatient to get back among the mackerel, and so the
schooner was running under all the sail she could carry, including a
jib-topsail and a huge main-staysail.

Somewhat to his surprise, Breeze now found himself the sole occupant of
the deck. The skipper and half the crew were eating their supper in the
forecastle, while the others were in the cabin, sleeping, reading, and
keeping warm. On account of the cold, they had drawn the slide over the
companion-way.

It was the first time the young sailor had been left in sole charge of
the vessel, and he realized the responsibility of his position. Still,
owing to his father’s teachings and careful training, he felt quite
competent to manage her, so long as no especial danger threatened. He
also comforted himself with the thought that there was not the slightest
chance of anything happening in the short time before he should be
relieved.

While thus thinking, and at the same time keeping a sharp watch of the
sails, the compass, and the dog-vane that, fluttering from the
mainmast-head, denoted the direction of the wind, he was startled by a
curious humming sound in the air above him. It was a weird, uncanny
sound, unlike anything he had ever before heard, and it filled him with
a strange fear. He was just about to call the men in the cabin, when
suddenly there came a roar and a shriek above his head. Then the little
circular tornado, directly in whose track the unfortunate _Curlew_
happened to be, struck her such a terrible blow that she was powerless
to resist it. In an instant she was knocked down and thrown on her beam
ends. The white sails, that had soared aloft so gracefully, and offered
so tempting a mark for the spinning whirlwind, now lay flat in the
water, heavily soaking and holding the schooner down.

Breeze had spun the wheel with all his might, and thrown the helm hard
down, in the hope of bringing her up into the wind; but the blow had
been too sudden and too heavy. The rudder no longer controlled her, and
she lay as helpless as though waterlogged, held down by that terrible
dragging weight of top-hamper.

As she went over, one man had struggled up from the forecastle and been
instantly buried in the sea beneath the heavy canvas of the foresail.
Breeze knew that the reason no more came was that a torrent of water was
rushing with resistless force through the narrow opening. Beneath him he
could hear the smothered cries and struggles of the prisoners in the
cabin. In a few minutes more the vessel would sink, and all within her
would be miserably drowned. Their only hope was in him. What could he
do? What could he do?

Standing on the weather side of the wheel when the schooner was struck,
he had saved himself from going overboard by clinging to it. Now he
scrambled to the upper side of the house, and holding on to the
weather-rail, began to hack desperately at the lanyards of the main
rigging with his sheath-knife. If only the masts would break off and
relieve the vessel of that awful weight of soaked canvas, she might
right herself.

One after another the lanyards snap like strained harpstrings. There!
the rigging has gone and the mast cracks. Now for the fore rigging! How
he reached it the boy never knew; in fact he afterwards had very little
recollection of what he did amid the terrible excitement of those two
minutes; but he did reach and cut it.

Then there came a rending of wood as the tough masts broke off. Then
slowly, very slowly, the vessel righted herself, and once more rode on
an even keel, though half full of water, and as sad a looking wreck as
ever floated.

As she righted, the after companion-way was burst open by the mighty
effort of those beneath the slide, and they rushed out gasping for
breath and with glaring eyes. They had been very nearly suffocated by
steam and gas generated by the water pouring down the funnel on the
glowing coals in the cabin stove.

From the forecastle also emerged, one by one, the half-drowned figures
of those who had been imprisoned in it. But for the prompt action of the
brave boy on deck, they would never have left its flooded recesses. One
of their number was missing, and he was the man whose place at the wheel
Breeze had taken, and who had forced his way out as the vessel capsized,
only to be drowned beneath the canvas of the foresail. He would be
sincerely mourned later, but there was no time to think of him now. The
others were still in too imminent peril of losing their own lives.

As the stricken craft rolled like a log in the sea-way, she pounded
heavily against the masts and spars, which, still attached to her by the
lee rigging and head-stays, floated close alongside. The danger that her
planking might thus be crushed in was so great that, in spite of his own
wretched condition, Captain Coffin saw it the moment he gained the deck.
Calling upon the others to follow his example, he drew his knife and
began to cut away the tangle of cordage that bound the vessel to this
new enemy.

When it was finally cleared, the seine-boat, which was still dragging
astern, was pulled up, and half the crew went in it to tow the mass of
spars and canvas clear of the schooner, and save such of the sails as
they could. The rest began to labor at the pumps, and to rig a jury-mast
on which they might spread such sail as would carry her into port. The
main-mast had snapped off so close to the deck as to leave nothing to
which they might fasten a jury-spar; but of the foremast a stump some
six feet high remained, and with this they hoped to accomplish their
purpose.

While the skipper, Breeze, and two others were thus engaged, those at
the pumps suddenly called out that the water was gaining on them, and
that the vessel was about to founder.

It was only too true; the stanch little schooner had evidently made her
last voyage, and would never again sail into Gloucester harbor. In fact,
the water was gaining so rapidly that it was within a foot or two of her
deck, and there was no time to lose in leaving her. Those in the
seine-boat were fortunately within easy hail, and dropping their work,
they quickly had it alongside.

There was no need of seeking an explanation of the rapid inflow of
water. It was only too plain that gaping seams had been opened by the
great strain of her masts and sails while the schooner lay on her beam
ends. It was more than probable, also, that butts had been started here
and there by the jagged ends of the heavy spars as they lay in the water
pounding and grinding against her sides.

Nothing could be saved. There was barely time for all hands to tumble
into the seine-boat and pull it to a safe distance from the fast-sinking
vessel. Then they lay on their oars and watched her. She seemed like
some live thing, aware of the fate about to overtake her, and struggling
pitifully against it. The swash of the water in her cabin sounded like
sobs, and the faces of the men who watched her, usually so bright and
merry, were as sad as though they watched at the bedside of a dying
friend.

The sun was setting red and angry in a mass of black clouds that came
rolling up out of the west as she took the final plunge, and diving bows
first, disappeared forever, leaving her crew silent, motionless, and
awe-stricken at the catastrophe that had thus overtaken them.

The skipper was the first to break the silence, and in a tone of forced
cheerfulness he said, “Well, boys, the old _Curlew_ has gone where all
good crafts go, sooner or later, and we must be thankful she hasn’t
taken us along with her. I honestly believe we should all have shared
her fate, and that of poor Rod Mason, if it had not been for this brave
lad and the quick wit that taught him to do exactly the right thing at
the right moment. I have not the slightest doubt that we owe our lives
to Breeze McCloud, and right here I want to thank him, and to pay my
respects to the memory of the brave man who brought him up to act as a
true sailor should in such an emergency.”

These were grateful words to poor Breeze, who was feeling the loss of
his shipmate, and of the schooner, more keenly than any of his
companions, and fearing that perhaps they would blame him for what had
happened. He had given Captain Coffin a hurried account of the disaster,
and of how he had cut away the masts; but the skipper had found no time
then to say what he thought of the course the boy had pursued.

Now, one by one, the men reached forward to shake hands with him, and
had it not been for the thought of the drowned man, he would, in spite
of their miserable situation, have felt as light-hearted as though
already in port.

There were neither water nor provisions in the boat, they had no mast,
sail, nor compass. Most of them were wet through, and already chilled to
the bone by the cold wind, which was rising, and promised to freshen
into a gale before midnight. Breeze was the only one who was dry and had
his oil-skins on, and but for his hunger he would have been
comparatively comfortable.

They stopped near the floating wreckage of spars and sails long enough
to obtain the schooner’s main-topsail, and the foregaff which they hoped
to rig up as a mast in the boat. They also cut away a small lot of the
lighter cordage. Then they headed their craft to the westward, and
started to pull for the distant land. The skipper said they were not
more than fifty miles from the coast, and if the sea did not get too
rough, they ought to make it by noon of the next day.

They were divided into two watches, and while half of them rowed, the
rest huddled together as close as possible in the bottom of the boat for
warmth.

It was nearly midnight, the wind was blowing a gale dead against them,
and they seemed to be making no progress whatever. Breeze, unable to
sleep, was sitting up gazing out into the blackness behind them.
Suddenly, as the boat rose on the crest of a great wave, he sprang to
his feet and cried, “A light! I see a light!”




                               CHAPTER V.
                         SAVED BY ELECTRICITY.


The joyful cry of a light at once put new life and hope into the hearts
of the hungry, drenched, and shivering occupants of the seine-boat.
Those who had huddled together under the wet canvas of the top-sail in
the vain effort to keep warm, as well as those who were pulling
hopelessly and wearily at the oars, gazed eagerly in the direction
indicated by Breeze. Yes, there it was, faint and yellow in the
distance, apparently that of some vessel approaching them from the
southward. They could see it as their boat rose on the crests of the
great billows, though it was lost again when they sank into the black
hollows between them.

Soon they were able to distinguish a second yellow light, lower than the
other, and by the position of these they knew that the approaching
vessel was a steamer, and a large one at that. Then her red and green
side-lights came into view. They watched anxiously to see which of these
would disappear first, in order to determine on which side of them she
was going to pass. If the red light should be lost to view, then they
would know she was passing to windward of them. In that case there would
not be the slightest chance of any cries they could utter reaching her,
and she would go on her way unconscious of their presence. If the green
light should disappear, it would be a sign that she was about to pass to
leeward. In that case there was a possibility that their shouts, borne
down the gale, might attract the attention of the watch on her deck.
Still, she might not stop even then, and it was an almost unheard-of
thing for a boat to be picked up at sea in the darkness of midnight,
amid the noise and tumult of a gale. They fully understood their
position, but, slight as their chance was, they watched for it
hopefully.

All at once, as they were lifted from a deep, watery hollow, and looked
for the lights, they gave utterance to exclamations of dismay. They
could still see the green light and the two yellow lights, but the red
one was no longer visible.

“’Tain’t no use. She’s going to windward of us;” muttered one of the
men, at once giving up all hope, and again lying down in the bottom of
the boat. “Luck’s against us, and we might as well reckon on help from
the old _Curlew_ as from that craft.”

Most of the others evidently thought as he did, and they turned their
eyes resolutely away from the lights, as though determined to be no
longer tantalized by them. But Breeze could not give up so easily, and
he still watched the lights whenever a lifting wave afforded him an
opportunity of seeing them.

What! Can it be? Or are his eyes deceiving him? No. It certainly is the
red light again, now much more distinct than before. The steamer has
altered her course and is heading directly for them. The men are filled
with new life at the boy’s exultant cry announcing his discovery. They
spring up and gaze incredulously. It is true, and both lights are now to
be plainly seen, not more than half a mile away and bearing directly
towards them. Now they fear that she may run them down, and begin to
pull to windward, so as to give her a clear berth. At last she is close
upon them, and the green light disappears, while the red shows clear and
steady.

“Now for a shout, men! All together as I give the word. One! two!
three!” commands the skipper.

It is a wild, desperate cry that startles the lookout on the forward
deck of the steamer from the half reverie into which he has fallen.

Again it comes to his ears, and again, borne on the wings of the gale
across the angry waters; and now it is heard by the steamer’s captain,
who has not left the pilot-house that night.

A gong clangs down among the engines, and a hoarse order is shouted to
the engineer through the speaking-tube. The great screw under the
steamer’s stern stops for a moment, and then churns the water violently
as its motion is reversed and it revolves rapidly backward.

“See if you can pick them up with the electric,” is the captain’s order
to the second officer, who has just appeared on deck. At the same
instant a dazzling flash of white light darts forth from the steamer’s
bow, and cuts a gleaming path-way between two solid walls of blackness
above the raging waters.

The second officer seizes the handles at the back of the great lamp, and
the broad band of light is slowly swept round to the direction from
which the cries have come. In another moment it flashes full in the
white faces of Breeze McCloud and his companions, sitting in their
seine-boat not more than a hundred yards away. The wonderful eye of the
search-light has discovered them, and they cover theirs with their
hands, or turn away from the unbearable radiance.

“Pull under our lee,” shouts the captain of the steamer through a
speaking-trumpet, “and we’ll try and get you aboard.”

It was a difficult task, for the ship rolled so deeply that it would
have been unsafe to open her side-ports, and they must be taken aboard
over the rail. As the seine-boat lay alongside, it was at one moment on
a level with the steamer’s deck, and the next so far below it that her
wet side rose like a black wall high above them. Nothing could be done
until she was turned, so as to lie head to the wind. Then, one by one,
the wrecked men caught the ropes flung to them, fastened them under
their arms, and were hauled up to the steamer’s deck, where they were
received and pulled on board by the stout arms eagerly out-stretched to
aid them. Some of them were buried beneath the huge waves that sprang
after them as though furious at being thus robbed of their expected prey
and still determined to clutch it. Others were bruised by being swung
violently against the iron side of the steamer. At last all of them were
safely rescued, and, with the seine-boat towing by a long line astern,
the great steamer was again headed on her course.

Was there ever anything so delicious as the hot coffee at once served to
them, or so welcome as the plentiful meal that awaited them in the
steamer’s mess-room, after they had got into the dry clothes furnished
by her crew? Breeze did not think there was. And when, soon afterwards,
he found himself in a comfortable bunk, under warm blankets, and
dropping to sleep, he felt that he was one of the most fortunate and
marvellously cared for boys in the world.

[Illustration: IN ANOTHER MOMENT IT FLASHES FULL IN THE WHITE FACES OF
BREEZE McCLOUD AND HIS COMPANIONS.]

The steamer that thus furnished the weary fishermen with shelter,
safety, and all the comforts of a sailor’s life was one of a line plying
between Boston and a southern city, from which she was now bound. Her
captain was one of those noble sailors who are never so happy as when
rescuing other toilers of the sea from its perils. He told Captain
Coffin that, without any definite reason, he had felt impelled to alter
his ship’s course half a point to the eastward shortly before their
cries had been heard. It was this change of direction that had brought
the red light once more into view.

Before morning the gale had so increased in fury that it was not
probable their light craft could have lived through it had they not been
picked up when they were. As it was, the seine-boat, while towing behind
the steamer, was struck soon after daylight by a great sea that capsized
it. The next crushed it like an egg-shell, and the broken wreck was cut
adrift.

Twenty-four hours later they entered Boston harbor, and the crew of the
lost _Curlew_, after expressing their heart-felt thanks to the captain,
passengers, and crew of the steamer, who had done everything in their
power to make them comfortable, left her. They made their way at once to
the market slip devoted to the use of fishing vessels, where they were
sure of finding friends and fellow-townsmen.

While walking slowly along the wharf, and looking wistfully over the
many fishing vessels crowded into the basin, in search of a familiar
face, Breeze was slapped on the shoulder, and a well-known voice
exclaimed,

“Vy, Breeza, ma boy! how you vas? Vere you come from, eh?”

Turning, he saw the smiling face of old Mateo, the Portuguese cook who,
on board the _Sea Robin_, had fed him with milk from the “lit tin cow”
when he was a baby. The old cook had always retained a warm affection
for the boy whom he had thus cared for in his helplessness, and had
never returned to Gloucester without visiting him and bringing him some
present. Now to see him seemed to Breeze almost like a glimpse of home.

Mateo, who, in spite of his years, was still hale and hearty, and one of
the best cooks to be found in the fishing fleet, would listen to nothing
where they stood. He insisted upon dragging Breeze aboard a new and
handsome schooner named the _Albatross_, in which he had shipped for a
cruise to the George’s. She had left Gloucester the day before, and run
up to Boston, where her skipper had some business to attend to. Now she
was to sail again within an hour.

Pulling his young friend down into the forecastle, and seating him
before the mess-table, Mateo exclaimed, “Vell, Breeza, you hongry, eh?”

To him eating was the most important business of life, and until Breeze
had assured him that he had just finished one breakfast, and had no room
for another mouthful, he would listen to nothing else. His mind being
set at rest on this point, Mateo asked,

“Vell, you not hongry, ma boy, ver is ze _C’loo_?”

“Gone to the bottom,” answered Breeze, “and poor Rod Mason has gone with
her.”

“Vat you say? ze _C’loo_ loss, and Rod Mason drowned? Oh, ze holy feesh!
an his bruzzer Bill here, on ze _’Batross_!”

It was indeed so; the only brother of the drowned man had shipped in the
_Albatross_ the day before. When he heard the sad news brought by
Breeze, he declared he must return at once to Gloucester, and make
arrangements for the future of his brother’s family. He would not even
wait for the skipper’s return, but, collecting his dunnage, hurried away
to catch the first train for home.

The rest of the crew, most of whom knew him, were intensely interested
in what Breeze had to tell them of the loss of the _Curlew_ and the
rescue of her crew. They were still plying him with questions when the
skipper of the _Albatross_ returned. He, like Mateo, had been one of the
_Sea Robin’s_ crew upon the memorable occasion when Breeze had come to
her, and now he gave the lad a hearty welcome. When he learned of
William Mason’s desertion he was somewhat annoyed, but in a moment his
face cleared and he said,

“Why won’t you come with us in his place, Breeze? You shall go as an A1
hand, have a full share of the catch, and we are not likely to be out
more than a couple of weeks anyhow. She’s a good vessel, and you are
always such a lucky chap that you’ll be more than welcome aboard of
her.”

“Yes, Breeza, come ’long,” urged the cook. “Ole Mateo feeda you till you
git fat like dog-feesh. Joe-flog, sea-pie, hatch, plenty good t’ings.”

Breeze laughed at the earnestness of the old man and the inducements he
held out, but said, “If I only could go home and see mother for a little
while first, I’d go in a minute. I’d have to get a new outfit too; the
only thing I saved from the _Curlew_ is this oil suit.”

“We’ll wait an hour for you to write to your mother and tell her just
how things stand. That’ll give you time to get an outfit in, too. I
guess you’d better come along,” urged the skipper.

“Outfeet!” cried Mateo, eagerly. “Vat you want? Peajack, boota, gole
vatch an’ chain, eberyting vat you vill hab me getta him.”

So it was finally settled, and an hour later, having written a loving
letter home, and been provided, through the old cook’s generosity, with
an outfit of clothes quite as good as the one he had lost, Breeze found
himself sailing out of Boston harbor in the good schooner _Albatross_,
bound for the George’s Bank. Certainly, nothing had been further from
his mind than this, when he had entered the same harbor a few hours
before; but he was rapidly learning that nothing is so likely to happen
in this life as those things we least expect.

St. George’s Bank, which furnishes the finest cod and halibut found on
the American coast, lies about ninety-five miles due east from Highland
light on Cape Cod. Its waters are fished all through the year by a large
fleet of vessels from New England ports, but its supply continues
apparently undiminished. It lies in a dangerous part of the ocean, for
it is swept by the current of the Gulf Stream, is subject to fearful
storms and dense fogs, and is crossed by all the transatlantic lines of
steamers.

Although it is so near at hand, and though fishing was one of the
earliest industries followed by the New England settlers, it was not
until about 1836 that trips to George’s became a regular feature of the
business. The bank was known to exist, and fish were known to be plenty
on it, long before, but the fishermen were afraid of it. This fear was
owing to the belief among them that the current, always sweeping across
it, was strong enough to drag under and sink any vessel that should
anchor within its influence.

The first three fishing vessels that visited the dreaded bank kept close
together, and their crews fished as they drifted about. Finally, one of
the skippers, who was regarded as a perfect dare-devil for proposing
such a thing, said he was going to anchor and take his chances. Several
of his crew were so frightened that they begged to be put aboard the
other vessels, whose skippers were not so venturesome. They were allowed
to go, and volunteers were called for from the other crews to aid this
bold skipper in his desperate venture. When enough brave fellows had
gone on board to be able to get the anchor up quickly in case of
trouble, it was let go, the cable spun out, was checked, the anchor
held, and the schooner rode to it as easily and quietly as though in
Gloucester harbor.

Now occurred the most amusing part of this bold experiment. The swift
current quickly bore the other two vessels away from the anchored craft,
but those on board the latter imagined that they were moving and leaving
their friends behind. They began to heave desperately on their cable,
got their anchor up, and started back in pursuit of their companions.
When they were once more united, all hands were fully satisfied with
their exploit; and though they had taken but a few quintals[B] of fish
they sailed back to Gloucester filled with pride because one of their
number had dared drop an anchor on George’s.

-----

Footnote B:

  A hundred pounds weight.

-----

In those days, and until 1846, fishing vessels did not carry ice in
which to pack their catch and bring it fresh into market. In place of
this, many of them were made into what are known as “smacks” by having
tight compartments built in their hold amidships, and filled with
sea-water from auger-holes bored through the vessel’s bottom.

The greatest depth of water on George’s is 212 fathoms,[C] or 1272 feet,
nearly a quarter of a mile. The average depth for fishing is sixty
fathoms, though halibut are often taken in water two hundred fathoms
deep. It is, of course, tiresome work to drag these great fish to the
surface from such great depths, and they are never sought for there if
they can be found in shoaler water.

-----

Footnote C:

  A fathom is six feet.

-----

It is no rare thing to find a hundred fishing vessels at anchor at one
time on George’s during any month of the year, and it was to join this
fleet that the _Albatross_ was now making her way swiftly around the
point of Cape Cod. She was fitted out as a hand-liner--that is, her crew
would fish with hand-lines over her sides--and she had a quantity of
frozen herring stowed with the ice in her hold to be used as bait.

They reached the bank and caught sight of the anchored fleet early the
following morning after leaving Boston. As they slipped along past one
after another of the vessels already at work, they could see their crews
hauling in their lines and tossing fish over the rail as fast as their
arms could move. It seemed curious to Breeze that this busy work should
always stop as soon as the _Albatross_ drifted near any of the others.
He asked why it was, and was told that they were afraid the new-comers
would notice their good luck and anchor near them, which they did not
wish to have them do.

As the _Albatross_ moved slowly across the bank, soundings were taken,
and the skipper kept a baited hook down. At last, in fifty fathoms of
water he got a strong bite, and at once ordered the anchor to be
dropped, Then the sails were snugly furled and the riding-sail set. This
is a small triangular bit of canvas bent to the main-mast, and is used
to hold the vessel’s head to the wind.

Now baskets of bait were got up, lines were overhauled, and soon every
man on board had one or two over the side. They were allowed to run out
until their leaden sinkers touched, when they were drawn up so that the
hooks, that hung a fathom below them, were raised a few feet above the
bottom.

There was an intense eagerness to bring up the first fish, and each man
kept an eye on his neighbor’s line as well as on his own, to see if he
were to be the lucky man. At last a shout announced a bite, and all
turned to see Breeze McCloud tug away at something so tremendously heavy
that it seemed to him he must be lifting a large piece of the bottom of
the ocean.




                              CHAPTER VI.
                         THE GALE ON GEORGE’S.


“Look out, Breeze! Let him run a bit!” shouted the skipper. “Don’t try
to snub him yet, or he’ll snap your line like a thread.”

Whish-hiss-s-s goes the stout line as the fish at the other end takes a
downward plunge. Now he runs upward, and the slack is hastily gathered
in. “There, he is off again! My, what a rush! There is evidently some
serious work on hand here,” said the skipper, as he went to the young
fisherman’s assistance. It took fifteen minutes of steady, patient, and
skilful work to tire the powerful fish. During this time general
attention was directed to the struggle, and the men almost neglected
their own lines in their curiosity to see what sort of a creature Breeze
had hooked.

Finally the exhausted fish gave up the fight and allowed itself to be
drawn to the surface. Now was seen the great white head of a halibut,
that looked to Breeze, who had never before caught a fish of this kind,
large enough to be a whale. Two men with gaffs[D] in their hands sprang
to his assistance, but the fish was so huge that not until two more had
also got gaffs into him was he lifted from the water and got on deck.
Here he was despatched by a few smart taps on the head from the “halibut
killer,” which is a short wooden club kept ready for this especial
purpose.

-----

Footnote D:

  Gaffs are iron hooks securely fastened to strong wooden handles four
  or five feet long.

-----

Breeze was wild with delight over his capture, while the whole crew were
more or less excited, as well they might be, for no such fish had been
taken from George’s by any one else that season. It weighed three
hundred and twenty-six pounds, and though larger halibut than this have
been caught, they are few and far between. One of the men said that he
was worth at least twenty dollars, and all admitted that he would create
a sensation when they took him into port.

“Put your mark on him, Breeze,” said the skipper, “so that you will be
able to pick him out when we get home. He might get lost, you know,
among the really big ones that the rest of us are going to catch.”

The boy laughed, but felt very proud of his first fish, as with his
sharp sheath-knife he cut a rude B like this, B, in the thick skin on
its head, and inscribed the same mark near its tail.

Old Mateo was as delighted at the success of his protégé as the boy
himself, and in honor of the event brought him a cup of hot coffee and
an extra nice Joe-flogger spread with butter and sugar.

“Me tell ’em so ven you lit babee, an’ eat ze harda tack. Me tell ’em
you catch ze feesh bimeby plentee, plentee! Now zey find out, eh?” he
exclaimed, in a tone of self-satisfied pride. It was as much as to say
that if they would only bring all the babies to him, he could tell
whether they would make successful fishermen or not. The men laughed at
him, and made many jokes concerning his wisdom; but he only laughed back
good-naturedly, and shook his head at them as he again disappeared in
the depths of his own domain.